README.md, before:

# go-rscp & e3dc command line utility

[![Build Status](https://github.com/spali/go-rscp/workflows/Build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/spali/go-rscp/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Build%22)
[![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/gh/spali/go-rscp/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/spali/go-rscp)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/spali/go-rscp/workflows/CodeQL/badge.svg)](https://github.com/spali/go-rscp/actions?query=workflow%3A%22CodeQL%22)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/spali/go-rscp)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/spali/go-rscp)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/spali/go-rscp?status.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/spali/go-rscp)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/spali/go-rscp)](https://github.com/spali/go-rscp/blob/master/LICENSE)

Go library (rscp) and command line utility (e3dc) to communicate with a E3DC system implementing the RSCP (Remote Storage Control Protocol).

Please be gentle with me, this is my first real go project and it's bigger than I thought ;)
There is still a lot to improve to be a good reusable library, but most works for my specific usecase using it as a command line utility.
Contributions are very welcome, see also the check [TODO](#TODO) or search in the code for `TODO:` comments.

## Usage

All arguments can also be set as `E3DC_` prefixed environment variable or in a config file like:

```
host 127.0.0.1
user myuser
password mypassword
key mykey
```

request sent, is always last argument or can be piped through `stdin` as json string.

See the examples below for more information.

### Examples

**\*Note**: top element has always to be an array\*

**\*Note**: these examples assume you have the default `.config` file setup or exported the environment variables.\*

**\*Note**: all example use the default output format, check the help `./e3dc -help` for other formats.\*

- Short tag only notation just request some information

  ```sh
  ./e3dc '[["EMS_REQ_START_MANUAL_CHARGE",0]]' | jq
  ```

  Output:

  ```json
  {
    "EMS_START_MANUAL_CHARGE": true
  }
  ```

- Short tag only notation just request some information

  ```sh
  ./e3dc '["INFO_REQ_MAC_ADDRESS", "INFO_REQ_UTC_TIME"]' | jq
  ```

  Output:

  ```json
  {
    "INFO_MAC_ADDRESS": "00:00:00:00:00:00",
    "INFO_UTC_TIME": "1970-01-01T00:00:00.000000Z"
  }
  ```

- Tuple notation of tag's to request information

  ```sh
  ./e3dc '[["INFO_REQ_MAC_ADDRESS"], ["INFO_REQ_UTC_TIME"]]' | jq
  ```

  Output:

  ```json
  {
    "INFO_MAC_ADDRESS": "00:00:00:00:00:00",
    "INFO_UTC_TIME": "1970-01-01T00:00:00.000000Z"
  }
  ```

- Tuple notation of tag's and values to send information (data type is inferred by the tag)
  ```sh
  ./e3dc '[["EMS_REQ_START_MANUAL_CHARGE", 3000]]' | jq
  ```
  Output:
  ```json
  {
    "EMS_START_MANUAL_CHARGE": true
  }
  ```
- Tuple notation of tag's and values to send information (with explicit data type)

  _Note: data type of the tag can be overriden by the user_

  ```sh
  ./e3dc '[["INFO_REQ_MAC_ADDRESS","None",""], ["INFO_REQ_UTC_TIME"]]' | jq
  ```

  Output:

  ```json
  {
    "INFO_MAC_ADDRESS": "00:00:00:00:00:00",
    "INFO_UTC_TIME": "1970-01-01T00:00:00.000000Z"
  }
  ```

## TODO

- [ ] more testing
- [ ] more documentation
- [ ] check the generic data type logic (i.e. pointer vs value in interface), this should do a pro ;)
- [ ] `cmd/e3dc`
  - [x] read config file (security)
  - [x] read from environment variables (security)
  - [x] streamline logging
  - [x] optional experimental mode which accepts any custom message (including tag, datatype and value)
  - [ ] implement optional (by flag) pair output (same as the tuple input without datatype)
- [ ] `rscp`
  - [ ] cleanup API
    - [x] probably expose `Message` as interface and make the struct internal (would allow to move the complete cmd/e3dc specific json stuff out)
  - [ ] streamline logging
  - [ ] client: improve implementation to make it stable for keeping stable and connected when used in a service
  - [x] move `cmd/e3dc` specific json marshalling out of `rscp` to command line utility `cmd/e3dc`
  - [x] move `cmd/e3dc` specific json unmarshaling out of `rscp` to command line utility `cmd/e3dc`

Commit message:

dev: adding code example for rscp lib

README.md, after:

# go-rscp & e3dc command line utility

[![Build Status](https://github.com/spali/go-rscp/workflows/Build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/spali/go-rscp/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Build%22)
[![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/gh/spali/go-rscp/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/spali/go-rscp)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/spali/go-rscp/workflows/CodeQL/badge.svg)](https://github.com/spali/go-rscp/actions?query=workflow%3A%22CodeQL%22)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/spali/go-rscp)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/spali/go-rscp)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/spali/go-rscp?status.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/spali/go-rscp)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/spali/go-rscp)](https://github.com/spali/go-rscp/blob/master/LICENSE)

Go library (rscp) and command line utility (e3dc) to communicate with a E3DC system implementing the RSCP (Remote Storage Control Protocol).

Please be gentle with me, this is my first real go project and it's bigger than I thought ;)
There is still a lot to improve to be a good reusable library, but most works for my specific usecase using it as a command line utility.
Contributions are very welcome, see also the check [TODO](#TODO) or search in the code for `TODO:` comments.

## Usage

All arguments can also be set as `E3DC_` prefixed environment variable or in a config file like:

```
host 127.0.0.1
user myuser
password mypassword
key mykey
```

### rscp library

See [cmd/example](https://github.com/spali/go-rscp/blob/master/cmd/example/e3dc.go) for a small example with different requests and responses.

### e3dc command line utility

Request sent, is always last argument or can be piped through `stdin` as json string.

See the examples below for more information.

#### Examples

**\*Note**: top element has always to be an array\*

**\*Note**: these examples assume you have the default `.config` file setup or exported the environment variables.\*

**\*Note**: all example use the default output format, check the help `./e3dc -help` for other formats.\*

- Short tag only notation just request some information

  ```sh
  ./e3dc '[["EMS_REQ_START_MANUAL_CHARGE",0]]' | jq
  ```

  Output:

  ```json
  {
    "EMS_START_MANUAL_CHARGE": true
  }
  ```

- Short tag only notation just request some information

  ```sh
  ./e3dc '["INFO_REQ_MAC_ADDRESS", "INFO_REQ_UTC_TIME"]' | jq
  ```

  Output:

  ```json
  {
    "INFO_MAC_ADDRESS": "00:00:00:00:00:00",
    "INFO_UTC_TIME": "1970-01-01T00:00:00.000000Z"
  }
  ```

- Tuple notation of tag's to request information

  ```sh
  ./e3dc '[["INFO_REQ_MAC_ADDRESS"], ["INFO_REQ_UTC_TIME"]]' | jq
  ```

  Output:

  ```json
  {
    "INFO_MAC_ADDRESS": "00:00:00:00:00:00",
    "INFO_UTC_TIME": "1970-01-01T00:00:00.000000Z"
  }
  ```

- Tuple notation of tag's and values to send information (data type is inferred by the tag)
  ```sh
  ./e3dc '[["EMS_REQ_START_MANUAL_CHARGE", 3000]]' | jq
  ```
  Output:
  ```json
  {
    "EMS_START_MANUAL_CHARGE": true
  }
  ```
- Tuple notation of tag's and values to send information (with explicit data type)

  _Note: data type of the tag can be overriden by the user_

  ```sh
  ./e3dc '[["INFO_REQ_MAC_ADDRESS","None",""], ["INFO_REQ_UTC_TIME"]]' | jq
  ```

  Output:

  ```json
  {
    "INFO_MAC_ADDRESS": "00:00:00:00:00:00",
    "INFO_UTC_TIME": "1970-01-01T00:00:00.000000Z"
  }
  ```

## TODO

- [ ] more testing
- [ ] more documentation
- [ ] check the generic data type logic (i.e. pointer vs value in interface), this should do a pro ;)
- [ ] `cmd/e3dc`
  - [x] read config file (security)
  - [x] read from environment variables (security)
  - [x] streamline logging
  - [x] optional experimental mode which accepts any custom message (including tag, datatype and value)
  - [ ] implement optional (by flag) pair output (same as the tuple input without datatype)
- [ ] `rscp`
  - [ ] cleanup API
    - [x] probably expose `Message` as interface and make the struct internal (would allow to move the complete cmd/e3dc specific json stuff out)
  - [ ] streamline logging
  - [ ] client: improve implementation to make it stable for keeping stable and connected when used in a service
  - [x] move `cmd/e3dc` specific json marshalling out of `rscp` to command line utility `cmd/e3dc`
  - [x] move `cmd/e3dc` specific json unmarshaling out of `rscp` to command line utility `cmd/e3dc`
